README.md, before:

[![Review Assignment Due Date](https://classroom.github.com/assets/deadline-readme-button-24ddc0f5d75046c5622901739e7c5dd533143b0c8e959d652212380cedb1ea36.svg)](https://classroom.github.com/a/YyUO0xtt)
# COMP2150  - Level Design Document
### Name: [your name]
### Student number: [your student number] 

This document discusses and reflects on the design of your platformer level for the Level Design assessment. It should be 1500 words. Make sure you delete this and all other instructional text throughout the document before checking your word count prior to submission. Hint: You can check word count by copying this text into a Word or Google doc.

Your document must include images. To insert an image into your documentation, place it in the "DocImages" folder in this repo, then place the below text where you want the image to appear:

```
![Place any alt text here](DocImages/<IMAGE NAME AND FILE EXTENSION>)
```

Example:

![This is the alt text for an image!](DocImages/exampleimage.png)

## 1. Player Experience (~700 words)
Outline and justify how your level design facilitates the core player experience goals outlined in the assignment spec. Each section should be supported by specific examples and screenshots of your game encounters that highlight design choices made to facilitate that particular experience.

### 1.1. Discovery
What does the player learn? How does your encounter and broader level design facilitate learning in a way that follows good design practice?

### 1.2. Drama
What is the intensity curve? How does your design facilitate increasing yet modulating intensity, with moments of tension and relief? 

### 1.3. Challenge
What are the main challenges? How have you designed and balanced these challenges to control the difficulty curve and keep the player in the flow channel?

### 1.4. Exploration
How does your level design facilitate autonomy and invite the player to explore? How do your aesthetic and layout choices create distinct and memorable spaces and/or places?

## 2. Core Gameplay (~400 words)
A section on Core Gameplay, where storyboards are used to outline how you introduce the player to each of the required gameplay elements in the first section of the game. Storyboards should follow the format provided in lectures.

Storyboards can be combined when multiple mechanics are introduced within a single encounter. Each section should include a sentence or two to briefly justify why you chose to introduce the mechanic/s to the player in that sequence.

You should restructure the headings below to match the order they appear in your level.

### 2.1. Acid

### 2.2. Checkpoints

### 2.3. Chompers

### 2.4. Health Pickups

### 2.5. Keys

### 2.6. Moving Platforms

### 2.7. Passthrough Platforms

### 2.8. Spikes

### 2.9. Spitters

### 2.10. Weapon Pickup (Gun)

### 2.11. Weapon Pickup (Staff)

## 3. Spatiotemporal Design
A section on Spatiotemporal Design, which includes your molecule diagram and annotated level maps (one for each main section of your level). These diagrams may be made digitally or by hand, but must not be created from screenshots of your game. The annotated level maps should show the structure you intend to build, included game elements, and the path the player is expected to take through the level. Examples of these diagrams are included in the level design lectures.

No additional words are necessary for this section (any words should only be within your images/diagrams).
 
### 3.1. Molecule Diagram

### 3.2. Level Map – Section 1

### 3.3.	Level Map – Section 2

### 3.4.	Level Map – Section 3

## 4. Iterative Design (~400 words)
Reflect on how iterative design helped to improve your level. Additional prototypes and design artefacts should be included to demonstrate that you followed an iterative design process (e.g. pictures of paper prototypes, early grey-boxed maps, additional storyboards of later gameplay sequences, etc.). You can also use this section to justify design changes made in Unity after you drew your level design maps shown in section 3. 

You should conclude by highlighting a specific example of an encounter, or another aspect of your level design, that could be improved through further iterative design.

## Generative AI Use Acknowledgement

Use the below table to indicate any Generative AI or writing assistance tools used in creating your document. Please be honest and thorough in your reporting, as this will allow us to give you the marks you have earnt. Place any drafts or other evidence inside this repository. This form and related evidence do not count to your word count.
An example has been included. Please replace this with any actual tools, and add more as necessary.


### Tool Used: ChatGPT
**Nature of Use** Finding relevant design theory.

**Evidence Attached?** Screenshot of ChatGPT conversation included in the folder "GenAI" in this repo.

**Additional Notes:** I used ChatGPT to try and find some more relevant design theory that I could apply to my game. After googling them, however, I found most of them were inaccurate, and some didn't exist. One theory mentioned, however, was useful, and I've incorporated it into my work.

### Tool Used: Example
**Nature of Use** Example Text

**Evidence Attached?** Example Text

**Additional Notes:** Example Text

Commit message:

final commit
submitting this because i've 200% run out of time

README.md, after:

[![Review Assignment Due Date](https://classroom.github.com/assets/deadline-readme-button-24ddc0f5d75046c5622901739e7c5dd533143b0c8e959d652212380cedb1ea36.svg)](https://classroom.github.com/a/YyUO0xtt)
# COMP2150  - Level Design Document
### Name: Jacob Whitton
### Student number: 48870635 

This document discusses and reflects on the design of your platformer level for the Level Design assessment. It should be 1500 words. Make sure you delete this and all other instructional text throughout the document before checking your word count prior to submission. Hint: You can check word count by copying this text into a Word or Google doc.

Your document must include images. To insert an image into your documentation, place it in the "DocImages" folder in this repo, then place the below text where you want the image to appear:

```
![Place any alt text here](DocImages/<IMAGE NAME AND FILE EXTENSION>)
```

Example:

![This is the alt text for an image!](DocImages/exampleimage.png)

## 1. Player Experience (~700 words)
Outline and justify how your level design facilitates the core player experience goals outlined in the assignment spec. Each section should be supported by specific examples and screenshots of your game encounters that highlight design choices made to facilitate that particular experience.

### 1.1. Discovery
the very first thing the player encounters is a 1 tile deep hole, they must learn how to jump in order to clear the obstacle. the player is then given a checkpoint, as the next encounter requires them to jump between pylons or risk their character falling into a pit of acid, this escalates the intensity of the 
What does the player learn? How does your encounter and broader level design facilitate learning in a way that follows good design practice?

### 1.2. Drama
What is the intensity curve? How does your design facilitate increasing yet modulating intensity, with moments of tension and relief? 

### 1.3. Challenge
What are the main challenges? How have you designed and balanced these challenges to control the difficulty curve and keep the player in the flow channel?

### 1.4. Exploration
unfortunately i gave up on beautifying the level after the initial area (the exact point is after the first pylon) the keys required to open the door are hidden away, so the player must find the keys for themselves

## 2. Core Gameplay (~400 words)
A section on Core Gameplay, where storyboards are used to outline how you introduce the player to each of the required gameplay elements in the first section of the game. Storyboards should follow the format provided in lectures.

Storyboards can be combined when multiple mechanics are introduced within a single encounter. Each section should include a sentence or two to briefly justify why you chose to introduce the mechanic/s to the player in that sequence.

You should restructure the headings below to match the order they appear in your level.

### 2.2. Checkpoints
before the first lethal pit, there is a checkpoint

### 2.1. Acid
the punishment for failing the jumps is acid bath

### 2.5. Keys
there is a key below the third pillar

### 2.6. Moving Platforms
after the third pillar there is a moving platform

### 2.8. Spikes
after the second checkpoint there is spikes

### 2.7. Passthrough Platforms
to reach the heals you need to pass through some platforms

### 2.4. Health Pickups
after the spikes i've placed some health pickups, just to be nice

### 2.11. Weapon Pickup (Staff)
staff is placed before the chomper/spitter arena

### 2.3. Chompers
chomper arena

### 2.9. Spitters
spitter tower

### 2.10. Weapon Pickup (Gun)
gun at base of spitter tower

## 3. Spatiotemporal Design
A section on Spatiotemporal Design, which includes your molecule diagram and annotated level maps (one for each main section of your level). These diagrams may be made digitally or by hand, but must not be created from screenshots of your game. The annotated level maps should show the structure you intend to build, included game elements, and the path the player is expected to take through the level. Examples of these diagrams are included in the level design lectures.

No additional words are necessary for this section (any words should only be within your images/diagrams).
 
### 3.1. Molecule Diagram

### 3.2. Level Map – Section 1

### 3.3.	Level Map – Section 2

### 3.4.	Level Map – Section 3

## 4. Iterative Design (~400 words)
Reflect on how iterative design helped to improve your level. Additional prototypes and design artefacts should be included to demonstrate that you followed an iterative design process (e.g. pictures of paper prototypes, early grey-boxed maps, additional storyboards of later gameplay sequences, etc.). You can also use this section to justify design changes made in Unity after you drew your level design maps shown in section 3. 

You should conclude by highlighting a specific example of an encounter, or another aspect of your level design, that could be improved through further iterative design.

## Generative AI Use Acknowledgement

Use the below table to indicate any Generative AI or writing assistance tools used in creating your document. Please be honest and thorough in your reporting, as this will allow us to give you the marks you have earnt. Place any drafts or other evidence inside this repository. This form and related evidence do not count to your word count.
An example has been included. Please replace this with any actual tools, and add more as necessary.


### Tool Used: ChatGPT
**Nature of Use** Finding relevant design theory.

**Evidence Attached?** Screenshot of ChatGPT conversation included in the folder "GenAI" in this repo.

**Additional Notes:** I used ChatGPT to try and find some more relevant design theory that I could apply to my game. After googling them, however, I found most of them were inaccurate, and some didn't exist. One theory mentioned, however, was useful, and I've incorporated it into my work.

### Tool Used: Example
**Nature of Use** Example Text

**Evidence Attached?** Example Text

**Additional Notes:** Example Text
